Some accuse the Bible of being a collection of myths and legends written by
well-intentioned humans. By contrast, the Bible says that it is the word of God
who cannot lie. If the Bible was authored by God, it should be like no other book
ever written. For example, when it mentions scientific matters, what it says
should be in harmony with proved science. When it foretells the future, those
prophecies should come through 100% of the time. And if the Bible contains God's
message to mankind, it should be available no matter where a person lives and
no matter what is done to stop its distribution. Is the Bible full of myths or is
it accurate? Consider just some of the evidence indicating that the Bible is
truly an extraordinary and trustworthy book. During the time when the Bible was
written, many people had mistaken ideas about the shape of the earth. A theory
written after the Bible was completed was that the universe emerged from a
cosmic egg and that the earth is supported by various creatures. In contrast
about the year 1473 BCE, Moses wrote that the earth is suspended upon nothing and
around the year 732 BCE, the prophet Isaiah wrote that the earth is a circle or
sphere. These Bible writers contradicted ideas that were popular at the time.
It was some 200 years after Isaiah's day that the Greek philosopher Pythagoras
may have proposed that the earth is a sphere. And more than 3,000 years passed
from Moses' writing until scientists such as Isaac Newton realized that the
earth seemed to hang upon nothing. No human can foretell the future in exact
detail. Yet about the year 732 BCE, the prophet Isaiah foretold that a man named
Cyrus would conquer the mighty city of Babylon, that he would dry up a river, that
he would enter the city through open gates. History confirms that every
detail of this prophecy was fulfilled. Concerning the same city, the prophet
Jeremiah foretold, that Babylon would become piles of stones and never again be
inhabited. Despite its strategic location, Babylon eventually became a pile of
stones and remains that way. Throughout history, powerful men have tried to stop
the distribution or translation of the Bible. They burned at the stake those who
translated it into common languages and persecuted those who read it. The Bible
has weathered the most sustained attack of any book in history. Yet it has
become the most widely translated and published book of all time. Billions of
copies have been produced in some 2,700 languages. The Bible is scientifically
accurate, contains reliable prophecy, and is available to all mankind. You have
good reason to believe that it is inspired by Jehovah, the God who cannot lie.
Still, you may ask, is the Bible still relevant today? Why are there so many
different versions of the Bible? What are the keys to understanding the Bible? To
learn more about what the Bible says on this and many other topics, go to